---
path: '/navigating-authentication-in-modern-software-stacks/'

title: |
  Navigating Authentication in Modern Software Stacks

teaser: |
  Cookies and Tokens, which one do you need?

seo:
  title: |
    Navigating Authentication in Modern Software Stacks
  description: |
    This guide will go through what Authentication is and how to effectively use it in your software stack
  keywords: |
    auth, modern software stack, authentication, tokens, cookies, OAuth2.0

published: true

publishedAt: '2022-03-03'

author: benehiko

overline: |
  Modern Application Architecture

tags:
  - Guide
  - Architecture
  - Authentication
---

## Preface

Authentication (AuthN), although important, always intrudes in the development
process of software. As a software developer you probably have noticed a lot of
precious development time is taken (even on personal projects) to add AuthN to
your project. This is usually because of so many terminology, navigating errors
such as CORS when working in the Browser and even contradicting resources on
what is the _most secure_ way of implementing AuthN. Is it using Tokens such as
JWTs? OAuth2.0? or Cookies?, the list goes on.

Furthermore, when working on different stacks we have different requirements for
User Experience (UX) and sometimes AuthN just gets in the way of that.

Hopefully this article will clarify some of that confusion and allow you to
focus on your applications' business logic.

## Terminology

## Authentication & Authorization

Before we go any further with this blog post we first need to clarify what
Authentication (AuthN) is and how is it different from Authorization (AuthZ).
Here are the definitions:

> Authentication: The process of verifying an identity is who they say they are

> Authorization: The process of validating (through rules) if an identity or
> service or machine is allowed to access a resource or perform a certain action
> on a resource

To put it simply, when adding login to our Application, we are talking about
Authentication and when we are talking about who can do what on our Application,
we are talking about Authorization.

### Sessions

Now that we know what AuthN is, let's dive deeper by investigating all the
aspects of how AuthN works. With the use of a simple diagram, we can see the
user supplies their credentials to Project X which then validates the
credentials with the Database.

![Simple Authentication](media/authentication-flow.png)

What this diagram is missing is how do we ensure the user does not need to
provide their credentials every time the user navigates to another page or does
an action. I'm sure you have heard of the term _session_. A session just means
we have created a mechanism to store information about the user in our
application, in AuthN we can use this mechanism for users to always prove they
are who they say they are without needing their credentials. So is a session
then some sort of cookie or token? Well depending on the technology or use case,
a session can be a query parameter in the URL, a Cookie storing some
information, the Browsers' local storage or a Token.

## The Modern Stack

In our current software climate we have the requirement to support as many
devices as possible through a single codebase, or at least in as few as
possible. This gives us the ability to maintain the software, add new features
and (hopefully) increase our user adoption.

However, through all of this we have ended up dealing with a lot of frameworks,
which creates a lot of abstraction. Although frameworks save us time when
implementing a feature, it can also happen that the framework just does not
support the underlying requirements for the feature to work.

When looking at different AuthN terminology and setting up an application using
_the modern stack_, we end up with a lot of questions. Can I use a Cookie here?
Why would it be better for a Token here? I have even seen articles proclaim
OAuth2.0 as the next security standard for your Web App.

Let's take a look at some popular frameworks and their underlying technologies.
I will also group these technologies into their own categories (as known
throughout the industry).

### Single Page Applications (SPA)

Single Page applications run completely on the client's browser. And do not rely
on any server interaction to display changes to the user.

### Server-Side Applications

### Server-Side Rendered Applications (SSR)

### Native Applications
