---
id: releasenotes-2022-02
title: Release Notes February 2022
publishedAt: '2022-02-08'
path: '/2022-02'
description:
  'Ory Cloud has now better compatibility with Ory Open Source features, new
  Network Policies, Cilium and general performance improvements.'
---

## Invite Team Members

It is now finally possible for project owners to add team members to their Ory
Cloud Project through an email invite. Invited members will automatically be
assigned the `developer` role with the necessary permissions to be productive.
The `developer` role prevents members from conducting any destructive task and
from creating more invites for security reasons.

Invites are ephemeral with an expiry time of 6 hours from creation. But don't
worry, once an invite has expired the project owner can easily create another.
We also implemented invite links to be reusable until it has been linked to an
active Ory account so that email clients following links won't invalidate the
link.

For more information on these changes, please see the
[Ory documentation](https://www.ory.sh/docs/concepts/project-invite-membership)

## Billing Changes

- first paid plan: start-up
- includes 1 CNAME domain
- two billing options: 18$/m and 180$/year
- yearly billing saves 24% `((12*18)-180) / (12*18)`

## 100% Ory Kratos Compatibility

Ory Cloud is now fully compatible with the open source Ory Kratos configuration!
That means you can now configure:

- Hooks such as `require_verified_address`, `session`, `revoke_active_sessions`;
- Add web hooks to perform HTTP RPC calls when e.g. an identity signs in or
  changes their password;
- Configure social sign in with Google, GitHub, ...;
- Customize E-Mail senders and use your own E-Mail SMTP server;
- Make fine-grained changes to the password policy;
- Have full control over WebAuthN, TOTP, and other MFA configuration items;

Please be aware that these features are only available via
[Ory's APIs](https://www.ory.sh/docs/reference/api) right now and not via the
Ory Cloud Console.

## First-time User Experience

We're making it easier than ever to get started with Ory Cloud Console. We've
added a first-time user experience right after sign-up, that helps you set up
your first project. Based on your project's plan, that's also followed up with a
quickstart designed for you to hit the ground running before going to your
dashboard.

Making Ory Cloud Console easier to use is a continuous effort that we will pay
special attention to going forward, so expect more changes like this one in the
future!

## Network Policies and Cilium

- Network level security: with the introduction of network policies we were able
  to reduce potential attack vectors resulting from malicious actors providing
  compromised configuration into the system.
- New networking module: with the adoption of [Cilium](https://cilium.io/), and
  [Google Dataplane v2](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/dataplane-v2),
  the Ory Cloud should be more resilient to network based latency and
  scalability.
- Real time tracing and monitoring: as a port of Cilium, we have introduced a
  new monitoring tool - [Hubble](https://github.com/cilium/hubble), which allows
  real time monitoring of network traffic. This allows administrators to observe
  the traffic and react to it if necessary.

### API-Gateway

We replaced `ingress-nginx` with `Gloo Edge` acting as the new API-Gateway. This
brings the following improvements to Ory Cloud and make it easier and faster to
tailer the ingress & requests processing to our needs in the future.

- Improve performance & lower latency: We are seeing lower latency and in
  initial tests better throughput in our monitoring. This makes us confident
  that we can further improve the performance while at the same time adding more
  features to Ory Cloud.
- We added support to introduce Rate-Limits based on Subscription Plan. We want
  to use the next few weeks to monitor the usage patterns and adjust the
  configuration so we can define and discuss our future subscriptions plans with
  you.
- Simplified configuration: With the switch to Gloo / Envoy we were able to
  streamline the configuration of our "ingress" layer in Kubernetes which makes
  our live easier and should lead to more features in a shorter time for you ;)
- Improved security by starting to enforce CSP policies
- More detailed observability right now is more an internal benefit, but will
  allow us in the future to expose e.g. detailed information on the number of
  API requests for your projects in relation to the limit of your subscription
  plan.
